{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang16393{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs22\lang9 1. Amazon EC2 (Elastic Compute Cloud)\par
\par
    Usage: Provisioning and managing virtual servers (instances) for applications.\par
    Responsibilities: Start, stop, configure, and scale EC2 instances; manage AMIs; and monitor instance health.\par
\par
2. Amazon S3 (Simple Storage Service)\par
\par
    Usage: Object storage service for storing data like backups, logs, images, and videos.\par
    Responsibilities: Manage S3 buckets, implement storage policies, lifecycle management, and security (IAM policies, encryption, etc.).\par
\par
3. AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM)\par
\par
    Usage: Managing access permissions and security for AWS resources.\par
    Responsibilities: Create and manage IAM users, roles, and policies; implement least privilege access; set up multi-factor authentication (MFA).\par
\par
4. AWS CloudWatch\par
\par
    Usage: Monitoring the health and performance of AWS resources.\par
    Responsibilities: Set up custom metrics, monitor logs, create alarms, track performance, and generate dashboards for instance and service health.\par
\par
5. AWS Systems Manager (SSM)\par
\par
    Usage: Automating operational tasks and managing EC2 instances at scale.\par
    Responsibilities: Apply patches, automate configurations, manage instances with Run Command, and manage EC2 instances remotely without SSH.\par
\par
6. AWS CloudTrail\par
\par
    Usage: Logging and auditing API calls across AWS services.\par
    Responsibilities: Set up and analyze logs to track API usage, user activities, and security-related events for auditing and compliance.\par
\par
7. Amazon VPC (Virtual Private Cloud)\par
\par
    Usage: Setting up and managing private networks in AWS.\par
    Responsibilities: Create and configure VPCs, subnets, route tables, internet gateways, NAT gateways, and security groups to manage networking in a secure manner.\par
\par
8. Amazon RDS (Relational Database Service)\par
\par
    Usage: Managed relational databases such as MySQL, PostgreSQL, and SQL Server.\par
    Responsibilities: Set up, configure, monitor, and scale relational databases; manage backups, security, and performance.\par
\par
9. AWS Lambda\par
\par
    Usage: Running code in response to triggers without managing servers.\par
    Responsibilities: Automate tasks like backups, scaling, or notifications by writing functions to be triggered by events (e.g., S3 uploads, CloudWatch alarms).\par
\par
10. AWS Auto Scaling\par
\par
    Usage: Automatically adjusting the number of EC2 instances or resources based on demand.\par
    Responsibilities: Configure Auto Scaling Groups (ASGs), monitor performance, and ensure application availability by adjusting resources automatically.\par
\par
11. Amazon Elastic Load Balancing (ELB)\par
\par
    Usage: Distributing incoming traffic across EC2 instances.\par
    Responsibilities: Set up and configure different types of load balancers (Application, Network, or Classic) to ensure high availability and fault tolerance.\par
\par
12. AWS Elastic Beanstalk\par
\par
    Usage: Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) solution for deploying and managing applications.\par
    Responsibilities: Simplify application deployment and scaling; handle underlying infrastructure management such as load balancing and auto-scaling.\par
\par
13. AWS CloudFormation\par
\par
    Usage: Infrastructure as Code (IaC) to model and provision resources.\par
    Responsibilities: Write CloudFormation templates to automate resource provisioning and infrastructure setup across AWS services.\par
\par
14. Amazon Elastic File System (EFS)\par
\par
    Usage: Scalable file storage that can be shared between EC2 instances.\par
    Responsibilities: Set up and manage file systems, control access, and ensure high availability across EC2 instances.\par
\par
15. AWS Cost Explorer and AWS Budgets\par
\par
    Usage: Monitoring and managing AWS costs and usage.\par
    Responsibilities: Set budgets, track usage, and analyze spending patterns to optimize cost management.\par
\par
16. AWS Backup\par
\par
    Usage: Managed service for backing up data across AWS services.\par
    Responsibilities: Automate backup scheduling, retention, and lifecycle management for services like EC2, EBS, RDS, and DynamoDB.\par
\par
17. Amazon Route 53\par
\par
    Usage: Managed DNS (Domain Name System) service.\par
    Responsibilities: Manage domain names, configure DNS records, and implement routing policies for high availability and disaster recovery.\par
\par
18. AWS Trusted Advisor\par
\par
    Usage: AWS best practice recommendations to optimize infrastructure.\par
    Responsibilities: Analyze account configurations, identify cost-saving opportunities, and ensure security, performance, and fault tolerance best practices.\par
\par
19. AWS Organizations\par
\par
    Usage: Managing multiple AWS accounts under a single organization.\par
    Responsibilities: Set up and manage organizational units (OUs), apply policies (Service Control Policies), and manage consolidated billing for multiple AWS accounts.\par
\par
20. AWS Secrets Manager\par
\par
    Usage: Storing and managing secrets (e.g., database credentials, API keys).\par
    Responsibilities: Securely store, retrieve, and rotate sensitive information, such as credentials, passwords, and tokens.\par
\par
21. AWS Key Management Service (KMS)\par
\par
    Usage: Managing cryptographic keys for encryption.\par
    Responsibilities: Create and manage encryption keys to secure data in various AWS services, enforce key rotation, and handle key policies.\par
\par
22. AWS Certificate Manager (ACM)\par
\par
    Usage: Provisioning, managing, and deploying SSL/TLS certificates.\par
    Responsibilities: Manage public and private certificates for securing data in transit.\par
\par
23. AWS Elasticache\par
\par
    Usage: Managed in-memory cache service (for Redis or Memcached).\par
    Responsibilities: Set up caching layers to reduce latency and improve application performance, especially for frequently accessed data.\par
\par
24. Amazon CloudWatch Logs\par
\par
    Usage: Storing and monitoring log data.\par
    Responsibilities: Set up log groups, streams, and filters; configure alarms and automated responses to specific events.\par
\par
25. Amazon S3 Glacier & S3 Glacier Deep Archive\par
\par
    Usage: Long-term, low-cost archival storage.\par
    Responsibilities: Set up storage policies for long-term backups or archival data, and manage retrieval requests.\par
\par
26. AWS Data Pipeline\par
\par
    Usage: Data movement and transformation across AWS services.\par
    Responsibilities: Set up workflows to move, transform, and process data across different AWS services (e.g., S3, RDS, DynamoDB).\par
\par
27. AWS WAF (Web Application Firewall)\par
\par
    Usage: Protecting web applications from common web exploits.\par
    Responsibilities: Set up security rules for your applications, such as blocking malicious traffic and ensuring proper protection for public-facing services.\par
\par
28. AWS Config\par
\par
    Usage: Configuring and auditing resources for compliance.\par
    Responsibilities: Track resource configurations, set compliance rules, and automate remediations for non-compliant resources.\par
\par
29. AWS CloudFront\par
\par
    Usage: Content Delivery Network (CDN) for faster delivery of content globally.\par
    Responsibilities: Configure distributions for low-latency content delivery and integrate with S3 and other services for static or dynamic content.\par
\par
Summary: Core AWS Services for Cloud Administrators\par
\par
For a cloud administrator, the focus will likely be on services that enable compute management, storage management, networking, security, and monitoring. Commonly used services include:\par
\par
    EC2 (for compute)\par
    VPC (for networking)\par
    IAM (for access control)\par
    CloudWatch (for monitoring)\par
    S3 (for storage)\par
    CloudTrail (for auditing)\par
    Auto Scaling (for scalability)\par
    CloudFormation (for automation)\par
    Systems Manager (SSM) (for instance management)\b0\par
}
 